Installing and Maintaining a GridFTP Server
===========================================

About This Guide
----------------

This page explains how to install the stand-alone Globus GridFTP server.

The GridFTP package contains components necessary to set up a stand-alone gsiftp server and tools used to monitor and report its performance. A stand-alone GridFTP server might be used under the following circumstances:

-   You are serving VOs that use storage heavily (CMS, ATLAS, CDF, and D0) and your site has more than 250 cores
-   Your site will be managing more than 50 TB of disk space
-   A simple front-end to a filesystem allowing access over WAN - for example NFS.

!!! note
    This document is for a standalone GridFTP server on top of POSIX storage.  [See this page](https://twiki.opensciencegrid.org/bin/view/Documentation/Release3/InstallHadoop200SE) for installation and configuration of a GridFTP server on top of the Hadoop Distributed File System.

Before Starting
---------------

Before starting the installation process you will need to fulfill these prerequisites.


-   Ensure the host has [a supported operating system](../release/supported_platforms.md)
-   Obtain root access to the host
-   Prepare [the required Yum repositories](../common/yum.md)
-   Install [CA certificates](../common/ca.md)
-   Service certificate: The GridFTP service uses a host certificate at `/etc/grid-security/hostcert.pem` and an accompanying key at `/etc/grid-security/hostkey.pem`
-   Network ports: GridFTP listens on TCP port 2811 and the list of ports configured by the `GLOBUS_TCP_SOURCE_RANGE` environment variable.

Installing GridFTP
------------------

First, you will need to install the GridFTP meta-package:

```console
[root@client ~] # yum install osg-gridftp
```

Configuring GridFTP
-------------------

### Configuring authentication

In OSG 3.3, there are three methods to manage authentication for incoming jobs: the [LCMAPS VOMS plugin](../security/lcmaps-voms-authentication), [edg-mkgridmap](../security/edg-mkgridmap) and [GUMS](../security/install-gums). Of these, GUMS has the most features and capabilities. The LCMAPS VOMS plugin is the new OSG-preferred authentication, offering the simplicity of edg-mkgridmap and many of GUMS' rich feature set. If you need to support "[pool accounts](https://www.racf.bnl.gov/Facility/GUMS/1.4/use_configuration.html)", GUMS is the only option with that capability.

In OSG 3.4, the LCMAPS VOMS plugin is the only available authentication solution.

#### Authentication with the LCMAPS VOMS plugin

1.  Add the following line to `/etc/sysconfig/globus-gridftp-server`:

        :::shell
        export LLGT_VOMS_ENABLE_CREDENTIAL_CHECK=1

    This should _only_ be done for OSG 3.3; it is unnecessary for OSG 3.4.

2.  Follow the instructions in [the LCMAPS VOMS plugin installation and configuration document](../security/lcmaps-voms-authentication) to prepare the LCMAPS VOMS plugin.

!!! note
    This is the suggested mechanism for all new installs.

#### Authentication with edg-mkgridmap

!!! warning
    As of the June 2017 release of OSG 3.4.0, this software is officially deprecated. Support is scheduled to end as of June 2018.

By default, GridFTP uses a gridmap file, found in `/etc/grid-security/grid-mapfile`. This is the file generated by `edg-mkgridmap` if you follow the default [install instructions](../security/edg-mkgridmap).  No further configuration is needed.

#### Authentication with GUMS

!!! warning
    As of the June 2017 release of OSG 3.4.0, this software is officially deprecated. Support is scheduled to end as of June 2018.

If you want to use GUMS security (recommended), you will need to enable it using the following steps:

1.  Edit `/etc/grid-security/gsi-authz.conf` and uncomment the globus callout.

        :::text
        globus_mapping liblcas_lcmaps_gt4_mapping.so lcmaps_callout

    Note that this used to be the full path to the library (`/usr/lib64` or `/usr/lib`), but now we rely on the linker for proper resolution in this file.

2.  Edit `/etc/lcmaps.db` to include your service endpoint:

        :::text
        ...
        gumsclient = "lcmaps_gums_client.mod"
                     "-resourcetype ce"
                     "-actiontype execute-now"
                     "-capath /etc/grid-security/certificates"
                     "-cert   /etc/grid-security/hostcert.pem"
                     "-key    /etc/grid-security/hostkey.pem"
                     "--cert-owner root"
        # Change this URL to your GUMS server
                     "--endpoint https://%RED%gums.example.com:8443%ENDCOLOR%/gums/services/GUMSXACMLAuthorizationServicePort"

### Enabling Gratia GridFTP transfer probe

The [Gratia GridFTP probe](https://twiki.opensciencegrid.org/bin/view/Documentation/Release3/GratiaTransferProbe) collects the information about the Gridftp transfers and forwards it to central Gratia collector. You need to enable the probe first. To do this, edit `/etc/gratia/gridftp-transfer/ProbeConfig` to set:

```text
EnableProbe="1"
```

All other configuration settings should be suitable for most purposes. However, you can edit them if needed. The probe runs every 30 minutes as a cron job.

### Optional configuration

#### Modifying the environment

Environment variables are stored in `/etc/sysconfig/globus-gridftp-server` which is sourced on service startup.  If you want to change LCMAPS log levels, or GridFTP port ranges, you can edit them there.

```shell
#Uncomment and modify for firewalls
#export GLOBUS_TCP_PORT_RANGE=min,max
#export GLOBUS_TCP_SOURCE_RANGE=min,max
```

Note that the variables `GLOBUS_TCP_PORT_RANGE` and `GLOBUS_TCP_SOURCE_RANGE` can be set here to allow GridFTP to navigate around firewall rules (these affect the inbound and outbound ports, respectively).

To troubleshoot LCMAPS authorization, you can add the following to `/etc/sysconfig/globus-gridftp-server` and choose a higher debug level:

``` file
# level 0: no messages, 1: errors, 2: also warnings, 3: also notices,
#  4: also info, 5: maximum debug
LCMAPS_DEBUG_LEVEL=2
```

Output goes to `/var/log/messages` by default. Do not set logging to 5 on any production systems as that may cause systems to slow down significantly or become unresponsive.

#### Configuring a multi-homed server

The GridFTP uses control connections, data connections and IPC connections. By default it listens in all interfaces but this can be changed by editing the configuration file `/etc/gridftp.conf`.

To use a single interface you can set `hostname` to the Hostname or IP address to use:

```text
hostname IP-TO-USE
```

You can also set separately the `control_interface`, `data_interface` and `ipc_interface`.  On systems that have multiple network interfaces, you may want to associate data transfers with the fastest possible NIC available. This can be done in the GridFTP server by setting `data_interface`:

```text
control_interface IP-TO-USE
data_interface IP-TO-USE
ipc_interface IP-TO-USE
```

For more options available for the GridFTP server, read the comments in the configuration file (`/etc/gridftp.conf`) or see the [Globus manual](http://www.globus.org/toolkit/docs/latest-stable/gridftp/admin/#gridftp-configuring).

Managing GridFTP
----------------

In addition to the GridFTP service itself, there are a number of supporting services in your installation. The specific services are:

| Software  | Service name                          | Notes                                                                                  |
|:----------|:--------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Fetch CRL | `fetch-crl-boot` and `fetch-crl-cron` | See [CA documentation](../common/ca/#startstop-fetch-crl-a-quick-guide) for more info |
| Gratia    | `gratia-probes-cron`                  | Accounting software                                                                    |
| GridFTP   | `globus-gridftp-server`               |                                                                                        |


Validating GridFTP
------------------

The GridFTP service can be validated by using globus-url-copy. You will need to run `grid-proxy-init` or `voms-proxy-init` in order to get a valid user proxy in order to communicate with the GridFTP server.

```console
[root@client ~] # globus-url-copy file:///tmp/zero.source gsiftp://yourhost.yourdomain/tmp/zero
[root@client ~] # echo $?
0
```

Run the validation as an unprivileged user; when invoked as root, `globus-url-copy` will attempt to use the host certificate instead of your user certificate, with confusing results.

Getting Help
------------

For assistance, please use [this page](../common/help).

Reference
---------

-   [Globus GridFTP administration manual](http://www.globus.org/toolkit/docs/latest-stable/gridftp/admin/)
-   [Globus GridFTP tutorial](http://www.mcs.anl.gov/~mlink/tutorials/GridFTPTutorialHandout.pdf)

### Configuration and Log Files

| Service/Process | Configuration File                                      | Description                                                 |
|:----------------|:--------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------|
| GridFTP         | `/etc/sysconfig/globus-gridftp-server`                  | Environment variables for GridFTP and LCMAPS                |
|                 | `/usr/share/osg/sysconfig/globus-gridftp-server-plugin` | Where environment variables for GridFTP plugin are included |
| Gratia Probe    | `/etc/gratia/gridftp-transfer/ProbeConfig`              | GridFTP Gratia Probe configuration                          |
| Gratia Probe    | `/etc/cron.d/gratia-probe-gridftp-transfer.cron`        | Cron tab file                                               |

| Service/Process | Log File                    | Description               |
|:----------------|:----------------------------|:--------------------------|
| GridFTP         | `/var/log/gridftp.log`      | GridFTP transfer log      |
|                 | `/var/log/gridftp-auth.log` | GridFTP authorization log |
| Gratia probe    | `/var/logs/gratia`          |                           |

### Certificates

| Certificate      | User that owns certificate | Path to certificate                                                           |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Host certificate | `root`                     | `/etc/grid-security/hostcert.pem` and `/etc/grid-security/hostkey.pem` |

[Instructions](../common/pki-cli.md) to request a service certificate.

You will also need a copy of CA certificates.

### Users

For this package to function correctly, you will have to create the users needed for grid operation. Any Unix username that can be mapped by LCMAPS VOMS, `edg-mkgridmap`, or GUMS should be created on the GridFTP host.

For example, VOs newly-added to the LCMAPS VOMS configuration will not be able to transfer files until the corresponding Unix user account is created.

### Networking

For more details on overall firewall configuration, please see our [firewall documentation](https://twiki.opensciencegrid.org/bin/view/Documentation/Release3/FirewallInformation).

| Service Name            | Protocol | Port Number               | Inbound | Outbound | Comment                                 |
|:------------------------|:---------|:--------------------------|:--------|:---------|:----------------------------------------|
| GridFTP data channels   | tcp      | `GLOBUS_TCP_PORT_RANGE`   | X       |          | contiguous range of ports is necessary. |
| GridFTP data channels   | tcp      | `GLOBUS_TCP_SOURCE_RANGE` |         | X        | contiguous range of ports is necessary. |
| GridFTP control channel | tcp      | 2811                      | X       |          |                                         |
